when I say exactly what you say I say
like look a lot of us are here on the
internet making the time to to to to
really make friends the internet because
we're so alone in real life and science
people are offended like why are you
saying that you're saying vegans are a
bunch of shut-ins or something like no
that's just you know my experience in
life and most of the other activists you
can say things like oh well everyone's
really alone like everyone's living in a
situation where they don't know any
other vegans I said no I should know
I've talked to some people who know like
12 or 15 other vegans in real life I say
you know I talked to one woman from New
Zealand's and she knows like 15 plus
other bigots empirical world and they're
always really shocked so let's let's
start with that never in my life have I
surrounding my stuff around so many
idiots dead actually no they're idiots
sign up on my patreon just for one
dollar net one dollar would give me that
sass me much business and you can
continue to see how better i have
everyone else in this vegan demi-monde
great do I call you uh Kiwi or what do
you want me to call you as a nickname
for this purposes of this broadcast yeah
Kiwis all good um so look I first met
you maybe three years ago on scott on
facebook I think back when my channel
was brand new so you know in some ways I
don't know you at all don't get me wrong
but in some ways I feel like I've known
you since forever yeah yeah yeah I think
it it's probably I met me about two
years ago we met via sorcerer marathas
facebook group which you know back then
source show was not famous I'm you know
in a sense none of us are famous but
yeah and my my youtube channel was was
just starting up and so on um you know
one of the things I remember about you I
mentioned you without naming you in a
few conversations soon as I talked to
vegans who say things it's
understandable if you can say things
like oh well everyone's really alone
like everyone's living in a situation
where they don't know any other vegans
as I know I should have talked to some
people who know like 12 or 15 other
vegan
in real life I say you know I talked to
one woman from New Zealand and she knows
like 15 plus other baguettes interval
world and they're always really shocked
so let's let's start with that you
actually know look I don't know 15
vegans how many bees you know in the
real world I I'd to be honest I probably
can put a number on it but I've I've
meet at least 50 that live locally in my
city yeah that's kind of amazing so I
mean your city in New Zealand can't be
that big because all of New Zealand
isn't that big like the total population
of New Zealand is not very high in the
millions yeah no one's about 4 million
people and the city i live in is
christchurch and that's about close to
400,000 fifty four hundred thousand
people Wow so I just ask you to be blunt
do you think that's an illusion do you
think it's an illusion that that New
Zealand has a ton of vegans or do you
think it's reality no no it is
definitely illusion it's probably
because I involved myself with a lot of
other bitanem organizations and like a
run a vegan club I just finished running
a vegan club on my campus so I've just
been a lot more I guess a bit more of
like a socialite just sort of
socializing with everybody okay look I'm
happy for you mean the first thing is
obviously I'm really happy for you to
hear that um I thought you were closer
to me an age did you just finish
University or did you go back university
as an older person like I don't know
your age I'm just guessing um no I've
just finished University i've spent
about five years there wow so look I
mean that that's kind of amazing but in
your city you know 50 vegans I was at
University recently and I both didn't
know any vegans and couldn't get vegans
to cooperate with me and there was a
vegan club on the campus but the guy who
organized it basically prevented me from
cooperating with the group even though I
was one of the signing founders of the
group and you know I never found out why
that was I basically I think he
basically felt threatened by me like
that guy has his own YouTube channel but
he gets like 10 10 views per video so I
think he had the feeling that I was a
more charismatic or possibly more
influential person or me
he just hates me but he didn't he didn't
let the dashi whenever we talk privately
he and I when there was nobody else or
he was actually really friendly with me
when we were alone but when we were in a
group like a political meeting
typesetting I think he was really
uncomfortable with the fact that I could
like you know sway the crowd kind of
thing you know if we were actually
having a debate or something but anyway
so my my experience that was negative I
when I left Canada I she got a bunch of
fan mail from vegans at my university
who said oh I'm also vegan at University
and we never met well it's a bit late
now so I knew I knew one vegan in in
Victoria it's a big city and you know
think then Coover's right next door so I
know it's shallow but I mean it's I
think it's really we're talking about is
knowing vegans in real life yeah like I
I think that's probably were a lot of
people sort of full shot or maybe
fallout of veganism is because they
don't have that support and I guess
that's why a lot of people turn to the
Internet to see if they can find other
you know like-minded people and find
other vegans that are like them because
not all the vegans in you know in
christchurch or get along and you know
not all of them are into the same thing
or come to vegans and from the same
background on it yeah well I mean I
totally feel the way but it's
interesting cuz sometimes other vegans
respond to that as if it's a criticism
or as if I'm insulting vegans when I say
exactly what you say I say like look a
lot of us are here on the internet
making the time Institute to to really
make friends the internet because we're
so alone in real life and sighs people
are offended like why are you saying
that you're saying vegans are a bunch of
shut-ins or something's like no that's
just you know my experience in life and
most of the other activists like you
know one of them so just yes you said in
some sense you've been involved with
some animal rights group and that's part
of the way you you met so many people
can you say a little bit about that and
what what kind of more rights group or
what you know you don't I mean um so not
all of them i would say like animal
rights like one of them is like the
christchurch vegetarian center which is
mostly run by vegans and but that's sort
of more of like an older crowd there's
also a group cool site animals from
exploitation
which is like a new zealand's yeah
they've got they've got animals is
therefore front of their focus but I
wouldn't say they're like animal rights
or like fully animal rights or animal
liberation but they definitely do push a
few sort of vegan agendas and then
there's a new zealand anti-vivisection
society and there's a local one that's
called kashi general right section so
they do a lot more of that the
protesting sort of stuff so you guys uh
this is just my ignorance minus G on is
Christchurch the capital of the whole
country or only of your of your province
what is the critical it's the biggest
place in the South Island of New Zealand
but the the capital was Wellington and
the city of Auckland is the biggest city
for population right so I just wasn't
sure of Auckland was actually the
capital or if it was just the most
famous city Auckland's the main city
foreigners know about so okay so that's
interesting but really you have this
activism going on in a city where you're
not you know influencing government
where it's really activism for the sake
of influencing other people yea I'm
guessing it that that's interesting it's
way too so where I was Victoria is not
the biggest or most powerful city in
Canada but it is actually the wealthiest
per cap we have almost no poor people we
have a lot of rich people in Victoria
and it's also one of the oldest with a
lot of retired people of elderly people
and it is a political capital so it's a
it's the political capital for that
province which is you know one of the
most important problems so you really
have all the read like all the
ingredients there for Victoria to be an
important place for vegan activism or
animal rights activism of some kind but
it's not a it's a it's a failure so you
know that that was interesting for me to
see although I just say like I don't
know you can tell me about New Zealand
this way but I mean that part of Canada
British Columbia the west coast it
really has a reputation for the kind of
yoga culture like physical fitness
culture as well as the kind of hippie
aspects so again they're kind of a lot
of the ingredients therefore you would
think um you know you know what I mean
you would think that veganism would have
a pretty easy time there I mean how do
you feel that I really again New Zealand
to me is just a
foreign country period I know I know
nothing about New Zealand how do you
feel that veganism fits into the culture
at least in your town well I actually
probably an interesting background like
I had done a lot of non vegan jobs
myself so that the area this is
obviously before come to the philosophy
but the New Zealand is based on like I
think tourism's like the number one
bringer of them of income and the next
one might be like the financial market
or something and then the third one is
um agriculture so [ __ ] is really
really big here and in the area that I
live in there's a lot of dairy farms but
I don't even yeah I don't can't even
count probably how many millions of like
cows and sheep and things that are
killed here every year considering the
small population that we have right well
I just mentioned that's that's a really
interesting thing about new zealand vs
canada a long time ago i made a video
talking with the economics of how the
canadian government pumps money into our
dairy industry the you know what they're
taking taxpayers money and giving it to
cattle farmers basically and in canada
the whole contraption loses money like
that part of the economy is a failure
and a guy from New Zealand who was
interesting the numbers and you know
many British colonies are like that you
know England itself the government
generally puts money into cows and
they're not the government is not
turning a profit it's losing money on
that but I got a guy from New Zealand
God touched me and he gave me the
numbers and he went through the numbers
we kind of went through the numbers
together and we figured out that new
zealand is actually one of the
exceptions to the rule in New Zealand
your government does make money out of
the dairy industry it's of it is a
for-profit industry for both the
government and for the farmers so that's
rare like you know you can look at that
as success you can look at it as failure
but you guys are actually turning a
profit partly because you sell your
dairy products to Canada among other
bizarre places so many people in the
world many vegans are used to
complaining the government wastes this
money on unmeet agriculture dairy
agriculture and it all loses money but
actually in New Zealand you have a more
difficult argument to make because that
is part of your economic backbone yeah
yes it does become quite hard when
you're trying to discuss with people
without you know what other financial
ways can they make money if we got rid
of animal agriculture and like that yeah
because they always bring up that it's
our number one export but it's not
necessarily like a number one industry
that makes the most money but it's
definitely one of our number one exports
well I assume also i mean New Zealand I
seem that fishing and wool are part of
your national identity I mean Caribbean
Rob I assume fishing is huge part of the
country's background and also wool
aren't you also known for sheep and wool
yes he's um although I wall has taken a
little bit of a backdrop in the last
sort of probably 15 years since dairies
come up but I don't know it may have
increased again since we had a few fools
in the market with the dairy and the
last neurosci what it is one of those
funny things when Canada also is just
this kind of you know dismal British
colony where it's like well if we're not
famous for the fur industry what are we
famous for its like that was really our
history our whole national identity was
made out of fishing and fur fur trapping
so you know III feel it I can you know I
grew up in that culture too I can
imagine what it's like being on the
other side of those conversations but
it's like yes everything like things
that were literally on the flag for this
country things that were in the emblem
you are part of the British Empire um
yeah we're challenging all of that we
feel all of that is a horrible error uh
yeah anyway but New Zealand that so just
given that you have that overall
positive situation you're well connected
coming out of university you're well
connected to a pretty big community of
activists and so on what we looking for
when you went to Thailand you went to
Thailand almost one year ago now yeah
and he hooked up with the the vegan
subcultures area uh I didn't I don't
really meet that many the vegans in
Thailand like I wasn't necessarily going
mia just for that but I've always been
that like coming from New Zealand you
always kind of Asia's probably one of
the closest sort of cheapest places to
travel yeah so I guess that's what
really attracted attracted media and I
will admit I do
like eating fruit and and the variety
here is not not very great it's kind of
weird because for me especially you know
a place like Thailand could evil easily
Thailand has been a huge part of my life
for more than 10 years so I said a long
time ago would be really convenient for
me if there was a positive vegan seen in
Chiang Mai or anywhere in Thailand for
me to keep in touch with and go back to
do you feel like there's something there
for you to go back to you saying you
wanna go back to possibly I don't know
though how because I'm looking at
hitting into the legal industry and I
don't really know how I be able to work
in live and summary like Thailand you
know like thinking like five ten years
down the track so I don't know how you
know that would work as a long-term but
I would definitely like to go back to
the short term you're looking at
something like law school I taketh on
yeah yeah yeah why I've finished my
bachelor promise and accounting and
Taxation and i finished my better of
laws and I just started my professional
study that you have to do before I get
invited to the High Court as a lawyer I
think that's the downfall of laws that
it's a lot harder to transfer to other
countries because every you know the
jurisdiction is different within within
Canada you can't even transfer between
cities that's part of what makes the
bruhs if you become a lawyer you are
stuck on that spot you better love the
city you you build up your your
credentials in and within the US it can
be like that from one state to the next
like you know if you want to move from
California so no at several as you might
have guessed about me because I studied
political science I considered the
option of becoming a lawyer at several
different points and every time I
considered it the final answer was nope
but yeah in some in some ways I envy you
but believe me because I did the
research I really understand where once
you're into that then you're very much
tied to place but I think for that
reason like a place like Thailand and
you as you know I'm a critic of the
whole permanent vacation thing everyone
knows that about me but nevertheless I
think it would be really meaningful if
there was somewhere in the world
anywhere in the world that vegans went
on vacation as a vacation not as a
permanent vacation as a temporary
vacation where they were they met other
vegans and had that kind of positive
experience you know so in a sense
sad if chiang mai can't play that but I
mean for me it wouldn't matter I mean it
could be you know it could be Jamaica it
could be Taiwan I mean Taiwan has a very
strong vegan culture but it's not a very
nice place to go on vacation you know it
could be anywhere in Asia from my
perspective it's not that im a pro type
person particularly but it's funny
because I think so many people like
right now we have Christmas and New
Year's coming up and there are a lot of
vegans who don't want to spend Christmas
and New Year's in Boston or in Australia
or wherever they're from they want to go
somewhere you know that a vacation so
what somebody in the comments section
Curtis is just laughing about a vegan
festival in Jamaica but don't forget
Jamaica was a real trailblazer for
vegetarianism not veganism but Jamaica
has strong roots with promoting a
vegetarian lifestyle at least so the
sign to be said for that when i was
talking to jason fazzino months ago
about us organizing her own event me and
Pizzi know and back then it was vegan
cheetah and the light twins and vegan
lasted okay let's have her event meet up
we went through such a brainstorming
process that did not begin with Thailand
like in some ways Thailand was like the
last place in the list but then when you
really thought it through and did all
the planning it was like you know what
actually the best place to hold this
event would be talent even though yeah
well i mean if if you ask people to
spend a ton of money coming to New York
City for an event like that like
everything in New York is expensive
including the hotel do you really feel
that their holiday or their budget is
justified I mean with Thailand you know
there's a certain level of just the
quality of the vacation quality of life
that they're going to have where you
don't you don't feel you have to
apologize if you're inviting people to
go to an event in Thailand yeah I bonus
yen